# Week 9: Notes

- Archaeology Data Service
  - ADS seems like a nifty tool --> how is a catalogue of this size managed/how frequently is it updated I wonder
  - Since all of this data is loaded into a large catalogue seemingly dedicated to collecting this data I anticipate it would already be "in shape"
  - Viewing data
    - Vessels numbered out of order
    - 2 vessel categories --> 1 marks "0" rows as `NA`, so row that has actual numerical representation can be kept/`NA` row erased
      - Was this an error when creating this database or does it mean something? --> "vessels" listed in the relationship model but that could have been autogenerated in program used
      - Inconsistent formatting for categories such as dimensions
  - Will this find "Cone beaker" AND "Cone beaker **?**"
    - `View(ConeBeakers)` --> finds both
  - Whithorn BP
    - Corrected title
    - Categories that are uncertain seperated by question marks in bar plot (ex. Bowl vs Bowl?) --> should these be sseparated or consolidated?
    - The crosstab bar plot I find isn't a very good representation of data --> scale makes sections difficult to read/extrapolate from
  - I wish there was a way to search this database by type of file offered
  - Finally! CSV!: Kennings from [The Sword in Early Medieval Northern Europe: Experience, Identity, Representation](https://archaeologydataservice.ac.uk/archives/view/sword_2019/downloads.cfm)
    - "Database 3 forms the basis of Chapter 3 in the book. It comprises a collection of sword and spear ‘kennings’, linguistic constructions used in Old Norse and Old English poetry (particularly skaldic poetry) that replace simple nouns e.g. ‘fire’ becomes ‘harm of the forest’ (Björn krepphendi, Magnússdrápa 3). The corpus numbers 57 Old English and 240 Old Norse kennings."
    - [Documentation](https://archaeologydataservice.ac.uk/archiveDS/archiveDownload?t=arch-3432-1/dissemination/csv/Database_Codes.csv) incomplete/inconsistent with the file --> nothing explaining "imagery" category nor the shorthands used in it
      - Oh actually has nothing on DB3 at all...
    - Look at references to swords specifically --> I anticipate that their kennings will reference power/fearsomeness
      - Some as expected --> reed of blood, battle fire, honour of warriors
      - Reference to animals --> serpents/snakes, but why dogs?
      - Reference to gods --> the wands of Viðrir [Odinn], thin ice of Gunnr [Valkyrie], sickle of Gautr [Óðinn]
    - Do most kennings reference swords?
      - Compare meaning of kennings in analyzed poems
        - Naturally most represent swords --> next is warriors, perhaps because they wield the swords?
    - Which poems reference warriors the most?
      - Anticipated Beowulf --> Vellekla actual greatest
      - Too many poems to be represented in this way --> sample select few from sorted data?


- Archaeologists Teaching Archaeologists
  - Trying to run this locally --> would someone replicating and using what's taught in this notebook  work through this notebook or would they do this work locally?
  - This is a nice tutorial
  - Didn't realize there was an excel library
  - NOTE: `CTRL + L` to clear console
  - `dirty-data` will be something to keep in mind for future
  - Last line of tally NA
  - `funs()` is deprecated as of dplyr 0.8.0
    - Fixed with `tibble::lst(mean, sd)`
  - 4j --> `ggforce` doesn't exist?
  - 5i --> `ggpmisc` does not exist
    - I seem to missing a lot of the needed packages...
    - Deprecated or expected that you have them downloaded already?
  - ``stat_bin()` using `bins = 30`. Pick better value with `binwidth`.`
  - `Error in library(FSA) : there is no package called ‘FSA’`
  - How reproducible is this if I can't run most of it outside of the tutorial?
